# HYCS — General Overview

Hyper-text Cascading Scripts is a free vibe coding platform developed by the community for the community. Founded by Kuzivakwashe Casey Tembo in 2026 with an aim to develop no-framework production ready websites using natural language to prompt and vanilla JS to code.

The name derives from the page generation format used by the program. Each page generated by HYCS is an HTML file containing its own respective structure, style and logic. It is a modular program designed to produce one page at a time e.g. `home.html`, `about.html`, `services.html` etc. with a basic routing mechanism that allows navigation between routes when building.

## Workflow

The user workflow is chat driven. The user begins by writing a natural language prompt at the homepage in a centered input area e.g. "Create a landing page for my coffee shop". The prompt is forwarded to an AI model through an API with a system prompt to produce a full page with HTML, CSS & JS code.

The building screen is different depending on the viewport. On mobile there are two primary interfaces: Chat & Preview. The chat interface has two primary options to either edit an existing page or create a new one. Every build is preceded by a plan written by a planning agent. The user must manually approve the plan which is a reduced noise and amplified signal conversion of their prompt.

## Images & Uploads

Users can upload images to the chat for two specific reasons:

1. Use the image in the website, or
2. Copy the UI in the image.

An image model is used to analyze a UI image then convert it into a high-fidelity specification which is added to the prompt to produce a similar design. At the header of the app there is an export button that downloads a `.zip` file containing the codebase.

## Desktop

On desktop there is a familiar vibe coding platform UI. The main page looks exactly like mainstream vibe coding platforms e.g. Lovable, v0 & Bolt. Below the input area is a grid collection of project cards belonging to the user's workspace. The build page has two tabs: a smaller chat tab on the left and larger preview tab on the right. Above the preview tab are two tab buttons to switch between preview and codebase. The code tab shows the code generated with a prettier-like code renderer. The export, deploy, login and settings buttons are in a higher header element on all viewport types.

## Settings

The settings route is simple. It contains a highly responsive interface like every other route on the app. Each setting is set in a dedicated fieldset separate from other settings to clearly group sections in an organized manner. The account section allows users to login, sign up or logout. The install section allows users to save it as a progressive web application within their devices.
